Common Interview questions:1) What do you consider your greatest weakness?>> Purpose: assess self-awareness- Select a genuine weakness that is not critical for the job and show that I am actively working to improve it.- Frame the weakness in a way that also demonstrates my self-awareness and commitment to professional development. - Highlight a past weakness and the next steps I took to overcome and demonstrate my growth.- Start with “I am not sure about my greatest weakness, but I can talk about a weakness in the past and how I overcame it”.- A good “weakness” to mention: Sometimes I get caught up in the details, but this has led me to realign my workflow regularly to ensure that I move on to the next task at an appropriate speed.2) What sets you apart from other candidates?- Use this question to highlight my top 5 strengths directly related to the role, from the job description.- Look to see which strengths they are looking for, and give examples of me possessing these traits.3) Tell me a time you could not meet a goal / deadline and how you handled it.- Explain how I react to situations that don’t go as planned.- Explain a time when things did not go as planned, the steps I took to manage and fix the situation, and lessons learned so it does not happen again.- Be honest about the circumstances, showing accountability without making excuses.4) Tell me a time you made a mistake. How did you handle it?- Illustrate how I overcome obstacles.- Acknowledge the error quickly and outline the steps taken to rectify the situation.- Explain a time I made a mistake and highlight the things I did to fix the situation and lessons I have learned so the mistake does not happen again, but also how it led to personal and professional growth.5) Why do you want to work for us / for the company?- Research the company and talk about the things you love about it.- Mention why I like the position itself and why this is a great fit.- Cite specific aspects of the company’s culture, mission, or projects that resonate with my own goals and interests. - Demonstrate my understanding of the company’s industry standing and express enthusiasm for contributing to its success. 6) What is your greatest strength?- Identify strengths with clear examples that demonstrate success in previous roles.- Look at the job description and only talk about strengths directly related to the role I am interviewing for. Align these strengths with the core requirements of the position I am applying for. - Show why I am a great fit for the role and explain how I have the skills that this job demands. 7) Tell me about some of the most difficult problems you worked on and how you solved them.- Show my problem-solving skills and what is my thought process.- I want the interviewer to feel confident in my ability to solve problems and create solutions. 8) Describe a time when you successfully balance several competing priorities.- Elaborate on my multitasking and organisational skills.- Explain how I organise your work and schedule your time.- Use this to show that I get things done!9) Why do you want to leave your current position?- Thank my current role for the things I have learned but explain why I am interested in the new role.- Explain what I enjoy most about the company and the position I am interviewing for. 10) What have been your most significant accomplishments?- Discuss problems that I solved [that can be related the position I am interviewing for]. - Talk about my top achievements that are related to this role, so the interviewer understands the value I will bring to the company and role. 11) Tell me about yourself. >> Purpose: Gauge communication skills- Don’t recite my resume. Tell a story and hook the interviewer with a unique opening, by sharing a defining moment, then tie this to my passion for the role.Example: As a kid, I started a lemonade stand and loved the trill of making a sale. That spark led me to study. Marketing and land my dream role XXXX. There I created a viral campaign that doubled sales for a struggling client, proving I can turn creativity into results. Now I am exciting to bring that same passion and impact to this role.- Summarise my professional background with a focus on experiences relevant to the role.- Highlight personal qualities or achievements that align with the company’s values and mission. 12) What can you bring to the company?- Share specific examples of my contributions to past roles that had a positive impact.-Discuss my approach to problem-solving and innovation that will benefit the company’s objectives.13) Tell me about a challenge you have faced and how you dealt with it.- Describe the situation succinctly, focusing on the actions I took to overcome the challenge. - Conclude with the successful outcome of what I learned, emphasising problem-solving abilities.14) How do you deal with difficult people?- Emphasise empathy and active listening skills to understand their perspective and find common ground.- Mention specific strategies for maintaining professionalism and collaboration despite differences.15) Why do you want this job?- Connect the job responsibilities with my skills and express how this role fits into my career path.- Discuss my passion for the work and the impact I hope to have within the company.16) Why should we hire you?- Point out how my unique skill set, experiences, and achievements will bring value to the team and company. - Explain how my career goals align with the company’s direction and needs. 17) Tell me about a time when your work was criticised and you handled it.- Discuss the critique with an open mind, focusing on the constructive elements. - Share the specific changes I implemented because of the feedback and the positive outcomes that followed. 18) Where do you see yourself in 5 years?>> Purpose: understand career ambitions- Align goals with the company’s future.- If I have clear career goals, discuss them. Otherwise highlight the skills that this position offers and that I would love to develop.19) Can you explain this gap in your employment?- Be upfront but brief. - Pivot to any skills or experiences I gained during this gap.- Offer positive and constructive explanations.- Show excitement about returning to work.Example: After my department was restructured, I decided to take some time to focus on my family and recharge. But I also used that period to sharpen my skills. I took online courses in XXX. I took on some freelance projects to keep my industry knowledge fresh. Now, I am excited to dive back in and bring new energy to a full time role.20) How do you handle stress and pressure?- Discuss strategies for managing stress.21) How do you prioritise your work?>> Purpose: assess organisational skills- Explain my approach to task management.22) What are your salary expectations?- Show that I have done my homework, give a range and not a number. Example: I have researched salaries for similar roles, and I am looking for something in the £X to £X range. I am confident that if I am the right fit for this position, we will be able to a compensation agreement that works well for both of us. For me the most important thing is finding an opportunity where I can make a real impact and grow with a great team.23) What motivates you?- Answer this by focusing on the work itself: I like challenging myself, growing, and gaining new skills.24) Are you comfortable working independently?- Explain that I love to take initiative, and can handle all the tasks in the job listing effectively without a need of constant supervision. Of course I do need the right amount of communication, particularly when tackling the initial learning curve.25) How do you define success?26) How do I stay organised?- Explain general tips for keeping on track, from task grouping to time management. Also specify tools / software used for this.27) Can you describe your work ethic?- Common answers: dedication, reliability, enthusiasm, passion, detail-oriented, integrity… But pick few that describes me and are more personal and present them well.28) Can you describe your approach to continuous learning and professional development?- Describe what you do in your free time to upskill.
